# Text_Analysis_Final_Project

This project analyzes public sentiment regarding New York City’s social services during the De Blasio and Adams administrations by comparing 311 data from NYC Open Data and Reddit threads mentioning 311 between 2020 and 2023. The research uses sentiment and keyword frequency analysis to form a comparison between the two data sources. The study tracks key terms such as “housing,” “benefits,” and “shelter,” to assess public sentiment on social service issues, using NLTK (Natural Language Toolkit) to processing and analyze data as text and VADER to conduct sentiment analysis. The analysis reveals a shift in sentiment, with more negative feelings towards shelter-related services under Adams, particularly in light of the “Right to Shelter” rollback and growing concerns about immigration. Despite the hypothesis of increased complaints under Adams, 311 data did not show a significant rise in welfare-related complaints compared to the de Blasio administration. The research highlights the challenges of using Reddit for understanding public service complaints, as the platform's user base may not fully represent those who rely on social services. The study concludes that while there are notable differences in sentiment, particularly on issues like shelter, further data collection from other platforms would provide a more comprehensive view of public perception.

#### use this link to access the file without rendering issues: https://nbviewer.org/github/lnomkin/Text_Analysis_Final_Project/blob/main/311_Service_Request_Comparison.ipynb

There are two files in this repository: one with output, viewable on GitHub developer, and one with cleared output for easier access. 
